"English Term (Dear translator: This file will never be visible to the user!)"	"English Definition (Dear translator: This file will never be visible to the user! It should only serve as a tool for you, the translator. Nothing more.)"
"abort"	"prematurely stop and abandon an operation"
"amend"	""
"ancestor"	"a commit that succeeds the current one in git's graph of commits (not necessarily directly)"
"annotate"	""
"author"	"The person who initially created (authored) a commit"
"bare repository"	"a repository with only .git directory, without working directory"
"base"	"a parent version of the current file"
"bisect"	""
"blame"	"get the authors responsible for each line in a file"
"blob"	     ""
"branch [noun]"	"A 'branch' is an active line of development."
"branch [verb]"	""
"checkout [noun]"	""
"checkout [verb]"	"The action of updating the working tree to a revision which was stored in the object database."
"cherry-pick"	"to select and apply a single commit to the current HEAD without merging"
"child commit"	"a commit that directly succeeds the current one in git's graph of commits"
"cleanup"	"clean the state of the git repository, often after manually stopped operation"
"clone [verb]"	""
"commit [noun]"	"A single point in the git history."
"commit [verb]"	"The action of storing a new snapshot of the project's state in the git history."
"commit message"	"a message that gets attached with any commit"
"committer"	  "The person who committed a commit (to the current branch), which might be different than the author."
"descendant"	"a commit that precedes the current one in git's graph of commits (not necessarily directly)"
"detached HEAD"	      "checkout of a revision rather than some head"
"detached checkout"	"checkout of a revision rather than some head"
"diff [noun]"	""
"diff [verb]"	""
"directory"	  ""
"fast-forward"	"A fast-forward merge is a special type of merge where you have a revision and you are merging another branch's changes that happen to be a descendant of what you have."
"fetch"	"Fetching a branch means to get the branch's head from a remote repository, to find out which objects are missing from the local object database, and to get them, too."
"file level merging"	"any merge strategy that works on a file by file basis"
"file"	     ""
"head"	"the last revision in a branch"
"hook"	"script that gets executed automatically on some event"
"hunk"	"One context of consecutive lines in a whole patch, which consists of many such hunks"
"index (in git-gui: staging area)"	"A collection of files. The index is a stored version of your working tree."
"initial checkout"	"the first checkout during a clone operation"
"initial commit"	"The very first commit in a repository"
"local branch"	"a branch that resides in the local git repository"
"loose object"	"a Git object that is not part of any pack"
"master branch"	"a branch called by convention 'master' that exists in a newly created git repository"
"merge [noun]"	"A successful merge results in the creation of a new commit representing the result of the merge."
"merge [verb]"	"To bring the contents of another branch into the current branch."
"message"	""
"origin"	"a remote called by convention 'origin' that the current git repository has been cloned from"
"orphan commit"	      ""
"orphan reference"	 ""
"pack [noun]"	"a file containing many git objects packed together"
"pack [verb]"	    "the process of creating a pack file"
"packed object"	"a Git object part of some pack"
"parent commit"	"a commit that directly precedes the current one in git's graph of commits"
"patch" ""
"path"	"The path to a file"
"prune"	"Delete all stale tracking branches under <name>. These stale branches have already been removed from the remote repository referenced by <name>, but are still locally available in 'remotes/<name>'."
"pull"	"Pulling a branch means to fetch it and merge it."
"push"	"Pushing a branch means to get the branch's head ref from a remote repository, and ... (well, can someone please explain it for mere mortals?)"
"rebase [noun]"	"The process of rebasing one set of commits on top of another branch's head"
"rebase [verb]"	"Re-apply one set of commits on top of another branch's head. Contrary to merge."
"redo"	""
"reference"	  ""
"reflog"	"the log file containing all states of the HEAD reference (in other words past pristine states of the working copy)"
"refmap"       ""
"refspec"	""
"remote [adj]"	"The adjective for anything which is outside of the current (local) repository"
"remote branch"	      "A branch in any other ('remote') repository"
"remote repository"	  "An other repository ('remote'). One might have a set of remotes whose branches one tracks."
"repository"	"A collection of refs (?) together with an object database containing all objects which are reachable from the refs... (oops, you've lost me here. Again, please an explanation for mere mortals?)"
"reset"	""
"resolve (a conflict)"	"decide which changes from alternative versions of a file should persist in Git"
"revert changes"	"abandon changes and go to pristine version"
"revert"	""
"revision expression"	"expression that signifies a revision in git"
"revision"	"A particular state of files and directories which was stored in the object database."
"sign off"	""
"stage [noun], index"	    "see: staging area. In some areas of git this is called 'index'."
"stage [verb]"	"add some content of files and directories to the staging area in preparation for a commit"
"staging area"	"The place where changes from files are marked to be included for the next commit. In some areas of git this is called 'index'."
"stash [noun]"	"The place (stack) where changes can be temporarily saved without committing"
"stash [verb]"	"temporarily save changes in a stack without committing"
"status"	""
"submodule"	""
"tag [noun]"	"A ref pointing to some commit object. In other words: A label on a specific commit."
"tag [verb]"	"The process of creating a tag at a specific commit object"
"tagger"	"The person who created a tag"
"tracked/untracked"	"file whose content is tracked/not tracked by git"
"tracking branch"	"A regular git branch that is used to follow changes from another repository."
"trailer"	""
"tree"	"1. tree object, 2. directory tree"
"undo"	""
"unstage"	"Remove content of files from the staging area again so that it will not be part of the next commit"
"unstash [verb]"	"Retrieving the temporarily saved changes back again from the stash"
"update"	""
"upstream branch"	""
"verify"	""
"working directory, working copy, working tree"	"The tree of actual checked out files."
