reftable.blockSize::
	The size in bytes used by the reftable backend when writing blocks.
	The block size is determined by the writer, and does not have to be a
	power of 2. The block size must be larger than the longest reference
	name or log entry used in the repository, as references cannot span
	blocks.
+
Powers of two that are friendly to the virtual memory system or
filesystem (such as 4kB or 8kB) are recommended. Larger sizes (64kB) can
yield better compression, with a possible increased cost incurred by
readers during access.
+
The largest block size is `16777215` bytes (15.99 MiB). The default value is
`4096` bytes (4kB). A value of `0` will use the default value.

reftable.restartInterval::
	The interval at which to create restart points. The reftable backend
	determines the restart points at file creation. Every 16 may be
	more suitable for smaller block sizes (4k or 8k), every 64 for larger
	block sizes (64k).
+
More frequent restart points reduces prefix compression and increases
space consumed by the restart table, both of which increase file size.
+
Less frequent restart points makes prefix compression more effective,
decreasing overall file size, with increased penalties for readers
walking through more records after the binary search step.
+
A maximum of `65535` restart points per block is supported.
+
The default value is to create restart points every 16 records. A value of `0`
will use the default value.

reftable.indexObjects::
	Whether the reftable backend shall write object blocks. Object blocks
	are a reverse mapping of object ID to the references pointing to them.
+
The default value is `true`.

reftable.geometricFactor::
	Whenever the reftable backend appends a new table to the stack, it
	performs auto compaction to ensure that there is only a handful of
	tables. The backend does this by ensuring that tables form a geometric
	sequence regarding the respective sizes of each table.
+
By default, the geometric sequence uses a factor of 2, meaning that for any
table, the next-biggest table must at least be twice as big. A maximum factor
of 256 is supported.
